README.md, before:



# What
This is a **Docker Template Stack container(DTS) for PHP projects**. It consists of:
- Latest mainstream PHP version
  - including Symfony
- Option to install other PHP version(side by side)
- Debug instructions
- Possibility to add Testing framework


You can use this container to start programming in your local environment for development and testing purposes. For the rest of the documentation open the [main documentation page](https://nicojane.github.io/PHP-Development-Template-Stack/). Or the Quick Setup [here](https://nicojane.github.io/PHP-Development-Template-Stack/Howtos/quick-setup). Other DTS containers can be found [here](https://nicojane.github.io/Docker-Template-Stacks-Home/)

<sub> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; *Is this a local repository project? Then use this local link [main page](./index) file. <sub>
<br><br>


<details closed>  
  <summary class="clickable-summary">
  <span  class="summary-icon"></span> 
  Side note: Preview the markdown files(.md)
  </summary> 	<!-- On same line is failure, Don't indent the following Markdown lines!  -->

> <br>
> 
> ### Preview the markdown files(.md)
>
>To preview the Markdown (MD) files in this project, one of the best solutions is to open these files in Visual Studio Code (VSC) and install the plugin: **Markdown Preview GitHub Styling** (Tested with version 2.04). Other plugins, or plugins for other programs, may not always work correctly with the file links in the documentation. I use the file link syntax supported by GitHub (Jekyll), which is also compatible with the above-mentioned plugin.
>
> To display the Preview screen in VSC: 
>- Ensure that you are **not** working in ***Restricted mode***.
>- Click on the "file.md" tab and choose: "Open preview." 
>- Alternatively, you can click the 'Open Preview to the Side' button at the top right. 
>
><br>
<a href="https://github.com/mjbvz/vscode-github-markdown-preview-style" target="_blank">Click here for more information on the Markdown Preview GitHub Styling plugin</a>
</details>

Commit message:

Add 'project-setup.md' suggestion, added '_backup.sh' file to backup the project files to the 'shared-host' folder in the host

README.md, after:



# What

This is a **Docker Template Stack container(DTS) for PHP projects**. It consists of:
- Latest mainstream PHP version
  - including Symfony
- Option to install other PHP version(side by side)
- Debug instructions
- Possibility to add Testing framework


## Setup and get started

You can use this container to start programming in your local environment for development and testing purposes.
- For a **project setup** suggestion please see ***./Howtos/project-setup.md***. See: [local](./Howtos/project-setup.md)  or [remote](https://nicojane.github.io/PHP-Development-Template-Stack/Howtos/project-setup) here.
- For a **quick setup see** ***./Howtos/quick-setup.md***. See: [local](./Howtos/quick-setup.md) or [remote](https://nicojane.github.io/PHP-Development-Template-Stack/Howtos/quick-setup) here.
- For a **Full description see** ***./Howtos/howto_create_a_dev_container.md***. See [local](./Howtos/howto_create_a_dev_container.md) or [remote](https://nicojane.github.io/PHP-Development-Template-Stack/) here.

 Other DTS containers can be found here: [remote](https://nicojane.github.io/Docker-Template-Stacks-Home/)

<br><br>

<details closed>  
  <summary class="clickable-summary">
  <span  class="summary-icon"></span> 
  Side note: Preview the markdown files(.md)
  </summary> 	<!-- On same line is failure, Don't indent the following Markdown lines!  -->

> <br>
> 
> ### Preview the markdown files(.md)
>
>To preview the Markdown (MD) files in this project, one of the best solutions is to open these files in Visual Studio Code (VSC) and install the plugin: **Markdown Preview GitHub Styling** (Tested with version 2.04). Other plugins, or plugins for other programs, may not always work correctly with the file links in the documentation. I use the file link syntax supported by GitHub (Jekyll), which is also compatible with the above-mentioned plugin.
>
> To display the Preview screen in VSC: 
>- Ensure that you are **not** working in ***Restricted mode***.
>- Click on the "file.md" tab and choose: "Open preview." 
>- Alternatively, you can click the 'Open Preview to the Side' button at the top right. 
>
><br>
<a href="https://github.com/mjbvz/vscode-github-markdown-preview-style" target="_blank">Click here for more information on the Markdown Preview GitHub Styling plugin</a>
</details>
